README.md, before:

# bevy-inspector-egui

Examples can be found at [`./crates/bevy-inspector-egui/examples`](./crates/bevy-inspector-egui/examples/).

This crate contains
- general purpose machinery for displaying [`Reflect`](bevy_reflect::Reflect) values in [reflect_inspector],
- a way of associating arbitrary options with fields and enum variants in [inspector_options]
- utility functions for displaying bevy resource, entities and assets in [bevy_inspector]
- some drop-in plugins in [quick] to get you started without any code necessary.

The changelog can be found at [`docs/CHANGELOG.md`](./docs/CHANGELOG.md).

# Use case 1: Quick plugins
These plugins can be easily added to your app, but don't allow for customization of the presentation and content.

## WorldInspectorPlugin
Displays the world's entities, resources and assets.

![image of the world inspector](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jakobhellermann/bevy-inspector-egui/main/docs/images/world_inspector.png)

```rust
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy_inspector_egui::quick::WorldInspectorPlugin;

fn main() {
    App::new()
        .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
        .add_plugin(WorldInspectorPlugin::new())
        .run();
}
```
## ResourceInspectorPlugin
Display a single resource in a window.

![image of the resource inspector](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jakobhellermann/bevy-inspector-egui/main/docs/images/resource_inspector.png)

```rust
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy_inspector_egui::prelude::*;
use bevy_inspector_egui::quick::ResourceInspectorPlugin;

// `InspectorOptions` are completely optional
#[derive(Reflect, Resource, Default, InspectorOptions)]
#[reflect(Resource, InspectorOptions)]
struct Configuration {
    name: String,
    #[inspector(min = 0.0, max = 1.0)]
    option: f32,
}

fn main() {
    App::new()
        .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
        .init_resource::<Configuration>() // `ResourceInspectorPlugin` won't initialize the resource
        .register_type::<Configuration>() // you need to register your type to display it
        .add_plugin(ResourceInspectorPlugin::<Configuration>::default())
        // also works with built-in resources, as long as they are `Reflect
        .add_plugin(ResourceInspectorPlugin::<Time>::default())
        .run();
}
```

<hr>

There is also the [`StateInspectorPlugin`](quick::StateInspectorPlugin) and the [`AssetInspectorPlugin`](quick::AssetInspectorPlugin).

# Use case 2: Manual UI
The [quick] plugins don't allow customization of the egui window or its content, but you can easily build your own UI:

```rust
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy_egui::EguiPlugin;
use bevy_inspector_egui::prelude::*;
use std::any::TypeId;

fn main() {
    App::new()
        .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
        .add_plugin(EguiPlugin)
        .add_plugin(bevy_inspector_egui::DefaultInspectorConfigPlugin) // adds default options and `InspectorEguiImpl`s
        .add_system(inspector_ui)
        .run();
}

fn inspector_ui(world: &mut World) {
    let egui_context = world.resource_mut::<bevy_egui::EguiContext>().ctx_mut().clone();

    egui::Window::new("UI").show(&egui_context, |ui| {
        egui::ScrollArea::vertical().show(ui, |ui| {
            // equivalent to `WorldInspectorPlugin`
            // bevy_inspector_egui::bevy_inspector::ui_for_world(world, ui);

            egui::CollapsingHeader::new("Materials").show(ui, |ui| {
                bevy_inspector_egui::bevy_inspector::ui_for_assets::<StandardMaterial>(world, ui);
            });

            ui.heading("Entities");
            bevy_inspector_egui::bevy_inspector::ui_for_world_entities(world, ui);
        });
    });
}
```

Pair this with a crate like [`egui_dock`](https://docs.rs/egui_dock/latest/egui_dock/) and you have your own editor in less than 100 lines: [`examples/egui_dock.rs`](https://github.com/jakobhellermann/bevy-inspector-egui/blob/main/crates/bevy-inspector-egui/examples/integrations/egui_dock.rs).
![image of the egui_dock example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jakobhellermann/bevy-inspector-egui/main/docs/images/egui_dock.png)


## FAQ

**Q: How do I change the names of the entities in the world inspector?**

**A:** You can insert the [`Name`](https://docs.rs/bevy_core/latest/bevy_core/struct.Name.html) component.

**Q: What if I just want to display a single value without passing in the whole `&mut World`?**

**A:** You can use `reflect_inspector::ui_for_value`. Note that displaying things like `Handle<StandardMaterial>` won't be able to display the asset's value.


[reflect_inspector]: https://docs.rs/bevy-inspector-egui/0.16.0/bevy_inspector_egui/reflect_inspector
[inspector_options]: https://docs.rs/bevy-inspector-egui/0.16.0/bevy_inspector_egui/inspector_options
[quick]: https://docs.rs/bevy-inspector-egui/0.16.0/bevy_inspector_egui/quick
[bevy_inspector]: https://docs.rs/bevy-inspector-egui/0.16.0/bevy_inspector_egui/bevy_inspector

Commit message:

disable highlight-changes by default

README.md, after:

# bevy-inspector-egui

Examples can be found at [`./crates/bevy-inspector-egui/examples`](./crates/bevy-inspector-egui/examples/).

This crate contains
- general purpose machinery for displaying [`Reflect`](bevy_reflect::Reflect) values in [reflect_inspector],
- a way of associating arbitrary options with fields and enum variants in [inspector_options]
- utility functions for displaying bevy resource, entities and assets in [bevy_inspector]
- some drop-in plugins in [quick] to get you started without any code necessary.

The changelog can be found at [`docs/CHANGELOG.md`](./docs/CHANGELOG.md).

# Use case 1: Quick plugins
These plugins can be easily added to your app, but don't allow for customization of the presentation and content.

## WorldInspectorPlugin
Displays the world's entities, resources and assets.

![image of the world inspector](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jakobhellermann/bevy-inspector-egui/main/docs/images/world_inspector.png)

```rust
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy_inspector_egui::quick::WorldInspectorPlugin;

fn main() {
    App::new()
        .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
        .add_plugin(WorldInspectorPlugin::new())
        .run();
}
```
## ResourceInspectorPlugin
Display a single resource in a window.

![image of the resource inspector](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jakobhellermann/bevy-inspector-egui/main/docs/images/resource_inspector.png)

```rust
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy_inspector_egui::prelude::*;
use bevy_inspector_egui::quick::ResourceInspectorPlugin;

// `InspectorOptions` are completely optional
#[derive(Reflect, Resource, Default, InspectorOptions)]
#[reflect(Resource, InspectorOptions)]
struct Configuration {
    name: String,
    #[inspector(min = 0.0, max = 1.0)]
    option: f32,
}

fn main() {
    App::new()
        .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
        .init_resource::<Configuration>() // `ResourceInspectorPlugin` won't initialize the resource
        .register_type::<Configuration>() // you need to register your type to display it
        .add_plugin(ResourceInspectorPlugin::<Configuration>::default())
        // also works with built-in resources, as long as they are `Reflect
        .add_plugin(ResourceInspectorPlugin::<Time>::default())
        .run();
}
```

<hr>

There is also the [`StateInspectorPlugin`](quick::StateInspectorPlugin) and the [`AssetInspectorPlugin`](quick::AssetInspectorPlugin).

# Use case 2: Manual UI
The [quick] plugins don't allow customization of the egui window or its content, but you can easily build your own UI:

```rust
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy_egui::EguiPlugin;
use bevy_inspector_egui::prelude::*;
use std::any::TypeId;

fn main() {
    App::new()
        .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
        .add_plugin(EguiPlugin)
        .add_plugin(bevy_inspector_egui::DefaultInspectorConfigPlugin) // adds default options and `InspectorEguiImpl`s
        .add_system(inspector_ui)
        .run();
}

fn inspector_ui(world: &mut World) {
    let egui_context = world.resource_mut::<bevy_egui::EguiContext>().ctx_mut().clone();

    egui::Window::new("UI").show(&egui_context, |ui| {
        egui::ScrollArea::vertical().show(ui, |ui| {
            // equivalent to `WorldInspectorPlugin`
            // bevy_inspector_egui::bevy_inspector::ui_for_world(world, ui);

            egui::CollapsingHeader::new("Materials").show(ui, |ui| {
                bevy_inspector_egui::bevy_inspector::ui_for_assets::<StandardMaterial>(world, ui);
            });

            ui.heading("Entities");
            bevy_inspector_egui::bevy_inspector::ui_for_world_entities(world, ui);
        });
    });
}
```

Pair this with a crate like [`egui_dock`](https://docs.rs/egui_dock/latest/egui_dock/) and you have your own editor in less than 100 lines: [`examples/egui_dock.rs`](https://github.com/jakobhellermann/bevy-inspector-egui/blob/main/crates/bevy-inspector-egui/examples/integrations/egui_dock.rs).
![image of the egui_dock example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jakobhellermann/bevy-inspector-egui/main/docs/images/egui_dock.png)

## Cargo features
- `highlight_changes` - highlight changed values every frame.
Ideally this should be runtime-configurable, but it was implemented like this as a stopgap solution. If you'd like to configure this at runtime, please open an issue to let me know it's more of a priority.
- `bevy_pbr` (default): register default options for `bevy_pbr` types. You should disable this if you don't use `bevy_pbr` to reduce the dependency footprint.

## FAQ

**Q: How do I change the names of the entities in the world inspector?**

**A:** You can insert the [`Name`](https://docs.rs/bevy_core/latest/bevy_core/struct.Name.html) component.

**Q: What if I just want to display a single value without passing in the whole `&mut World`?**

**A:** You can use `reflect_inspector::ui_for_value`. Note that displaying things like `Handle<StandardMaterial>` won't be able to display the asset's value.


[reflect_inspector]: https://docs.rs/bevy-inspector-egui/0.16.0/bevy_inspector_egui/reflect_inspector
[inspector_options]: https://docs.rs/bevy-inspector-egui/0.16.0/bevy_inspector_egui/inspector_options
[quick]: https://docs.rs/bevy-inspector-egui/0.16.0/bevy_inspector_egui/quick
[bevy_inspector]: https://docs.rs/bevy-inspector-egui/0.16.0/bevy_inspector_egui/bevy_inspector
